---
layout: page
sidenav: true
permalink: openacr/
type: acquisition
title: Open Accessibility Conformance Reports (OpenACR)
created: 1527569659
---

# Open Accessibility Conformance Reports (OpenACR)

## A simple, modern way to report and evaluate accessibility conformance

OpenACR makes it easier for your team to meet Section 508 requirements.

### Get started with a better ACR

OpenACR makes it easier for everyone to build, maintain, validate, and compare accessibility reports – for procurement and beyond.

[Start my report](https://gsa.github.io/openacr-editor/)

## How does OpenACR help me?

### Procurement team

OpenACR keeps accessibility information on digital tools current and accurate, helping you choose smart and accessible solutions for your organization's needs.

### Accessibility Subject Matter Experts (SME)

OpenACR provides a common way to share information about conformance claims, making it easier for you to support vendors and agencies with accessibility review or feedback.

### Vendors

To show that your software is the best fit for a potential client, you need to prove that it meets Section 508 standards for accessibility. OpenACR simplifies the process.

### Advocates

People with lived disabilities and others who advocate for accessibility can use OpenACR to advance awareness about whether accessibility claims match reality.

## Learn More

- [Why OpenACR](openacr/about)
- [OpenACR initiative](openacr/initiative)
- [Creating an OpenACR report](openacr/create-report)
