---
title: December IT Accessibility Community Meeting
layout: wide_events
start-date: Tuesday, Dec 7 2021 13:00 #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: Tuesday, Dec 7 2021 14:00 #otherwise use end-date
image:
image-alt: 
permalink: /event/itacm-dec2021/
description: The next IT Accessibility Community Meeting (ITACM) will be on Tuesday, December 7, 2021 and will be a fully virtual event. Our theme, "Winter Break:: Accessibility Lights, DEIA Camera...ACTION” continues to focus on reconnecting our broader accessibility community members and charting the path forward. 
---

The next IT Accessibility Community Meeting (ITACM) will be on Tuesday, December 7, 2021 and will be a fully virtual event. Our theme, ***"Winter Break: Accessibility Lights, DEIA Camera...ACTION"*** continues to focus on reconnecting our broader accessibility community members and charting the path forward. The topics we’ll discuss at the meeting include:

- DEIA and the Accessibility Community 
- What is The Big Picture
- Using the Tools We Have To Accomplish the Goal

## EVENT DETAILS
**DATE:** December 7, 2021  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM (EST)  
**WHERE:** Virtual - This meeting will be supported by Zoom for Government (FedRamp Certified). Please feel free to attend via your personal device.  
**WHO:** Anyone involved or interested in Section 508  

## REGISTRATION
**[Registration](https://feedback.gsa.gov/jfe/form/SV_5hhVlJZeuzpJ4nI)** is now open and will close December 3rd at 12:00 PM (EST)

## OPTIONAL UGLY SWEATER CONTEST DURING THE EVENT
Keeping with our December meeting tradition, the annual **"Beauty Is In The Eye Of The Beholder" Ugly Sweater Contest** will take place. Take a picture of yourself in your "best" holiday sweater and submit it to [section.508@gsa.gov](section.508@gsa.gov) by 3:00 PM (EST) on Friday, December 3rd. Please include your name and agency with your picture.<sup><a href="#fn1" id="ref1">*</a></sup> You must be present at the meeting wearing your sweater to be eligible to win. Voting for the best ugly sweater will take place during the meeting. Our reigning champ from last year’s ugly sweater contest is Tim Creagan, from the Access Board. Will he be dethroned this year?
<sup id="fn1">

**&ast;Note:** By submitting your picture, you agree to the following:

- Your picture being shared during the meeting for voting
- Wearing your sweater during the meeting for others participants to view
- Your picture “as the winner” being shared on section508.gov<a href="#ref1" title="Jump back to footnote reference.">↩</a></sup>

**Reviewed/Updated:** November 2021