---
title: IT Accessibility Community Meeting | August 2022
layout: wide_events
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: Tuesday, August 16 2022 13:00 #otherwise use end-date
image:
image-alt: 
permalink: /event/itacm-aug2022/
description: Save-the-Date! The August IT Accessibility Community Meeting (ITACM) will be held on Tuesday, August 16, 2022. The topic for this session is "Be The Change In Accessibility - Policy & Management."
---

The next IT Accessibility Community Meeting is a virtual event scheduled for **Tuesday, August 16, 2022**. Our overall theme, ***"Be The Change In Accessibility,”*** focuses on “being the change” while reconnecting with our broader accessibility community members and charting the path forward. 

The topic for this session is “Be The Change In Accessibility: Policy & Management.” First, you’ll hear an overview of findings from the Section 508 Program Maturity Report including trends, successes, challenges and recommendations in meeting the IT accessibility needs of people with disabilities.
 
Then, you’ll have an opportunity to get an answer to that burning IT accessibility question you’ve always wanted to ask during an “office hours” session with a panel of Accessibility Subject Matter Experts. Prior to the session, you will have the opportunity to identify questions or challenges you have experienced in your day-to-day work. Panelists will discuss these topics and provide concrete recommendations on how to address them.

## EVENT DETAILS
**DATE:** August 16, 2022  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM (EST)  
**WHERE:** Virtual  
**WHO:** Anyone involved or interested in Section 508  

## REGISTRATION
**Registration:** [Registration](https://feedback.gsa.gov/jfe/form/SV_9uAO4SI3sqfDBLU) is now open and will close Monday, August 15 at 12:00 pm. Sign up today! 

**Please submit all “Office Hour” questions to <section.508@gsa.gov> by close of business, Thursday, August 11, 2022.** A good way to prepare for this session is to identify questions or challenges you have experienced in your day-to-day work, and ask panelists to help understand or approach one of these challenges.
 
This virtual meeting is supported by Zoom for Government (FedRAMP certified).  Please feel free to attend via your personal device.

**Reviewed/Updated:** August 2022