---
title: February 2022 IT Accessibility Community Meeting
layout: wide_events
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: Tuesday, Feb 8 2022 13:00 #otherwise use end-date
image:
image-alt: 
permalink: /event/itacm-feb2022/
description: The first IT Accessibility Community Meeting (ITACM) of the new year will be held on Tuesday, February 8, 2022. 
---

The next IT Accessibility Community Meeting is a virtual event scheduled for **Tuesday, February 8, 2022**. Our overall theme, ***"Be The Change In Accessibility,”*** focuses on “being the change” while reconnecting with our broader accessibility community members and charting the path forward. The topic for this session is *“Be The Change In Accessibility: Design & Development”* where you’ll hear from two speakers.

Join the conversation and learn ways to:  

* Manage checklists for assessments, and 
* Measure maturity across the agency by organization.

You can also listen in on how emerging technology like AI and machine learning can:  

* Scale accessibility to detect, remediate, and provide guidance to ensure access to people of all abilities, and
* Challenge how to center this work in diversity, inclusion, equity, and accessibility.

## EVENT DETAILS
**DATE:** February 8, 2022  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM (EST)  
**WHERE:** Virtual - This meeting will be supported by Zoom for Government (FedRamp Certified). Please feel free to attend via your personal device.  
**WHO:** Anyone involved or interested in Section 508  

## REGISTRATION
**Registration:** <a href="https://feedback.gsa.gov/jfe/form/SV_5u58ZXmjuCFTT4G" target="_blank">Registration is now open</a> and will close Friday, February 4 at 12:00 PM - Sign up today!

**Note: You must join the meeting using your first and last name (inclusion of agency affiliation is optional). Nicknames and phone numbers will not be given access*

**Reviewed/Updated:** January 26, 2022