---
title: IT Accessibility Community Meeting | April 2022 
layout: wide_events
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: Tuesday, Apr 19 2022 13:00 #otherwise use end-date
image:
image-alt: 
permalink: /event/itacm-apr2022/
description: The April IT Accessibility Community Meeting (ITACM) will be held on Tuesday, April 19, 2022. Join the conversation and learn ways to conduct market research with accessibility in mind.
---

The next IT Accessibility Community Meeting is a virtual event scheduled for **Tuesday, April 19, 2022**. Our overall theme, ***"Be The Change In Accessibility,”*** focuses on “being the change” while reconnecting with our broader accessibility community members and charting the path forward. The topic for this session is “Be The Change In Accessibility: Acquisition” where you’ll hear from four speakers.

You can also listen in on how the Solicitation Review Tool (SRT) is being improved:

* Leveraging the expertise of the PMs and their  decision making processes to assist in the update our algorithm
* Updating our algorithms and data sets to adhere to the incorporation of the new standards, and 
* Creating a guidance document to assist with the labeling process accessible for everyone

Join the conversation and learn ways to conduct market research with accessibility in mind.  Market Research, when done well, has three key characteristics for any accessible ICT procurement:   

* Effective: demonstrates the ability to answer questions from various stakeholders 
* Informative: documents the due diligence put forth about what was done, and
* Productive: demonstrates the knowledge necessary to accomplish the first two items

## EVENT DETAILS
**DATE:** April 19, 2022  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM (EST)  
**WHERE:** Virtual - This meeting will be supported by Zoom for Government (FedRamp Certified). Please feel free to attend via your personal device.  
**WHO:** Anyone involved or interested in Section 508  

## REGISTRATION
**Registration:** <a href="https://feedback.gsa.gov/jfe/form/SV_bkmmw3TXmiSwf7o" target="_blank">Registration is now open</a> and will close Monday, April 18 at 12:00 pm. - Sign up today!

**Note: You must join the meeting using your first and last name. Agency affiliation is optional. Nicknames and phone numbers will not be given access*

**Reviewed/Updated:** April 2022