---
title: IT Accessibility Community Meeting | February 2024
layout: wide_events
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: Tuesday, February 13 2024 13:00 #otherwise use end-date
image:
image-alt: 
permalink: /event/itacm-feb2024/
description: Save-the-Date! The February IT Accessibility Community Meeting (ITACM) will be held on Tuesday, February 13, 2024 from 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM ET. During the meeting, federal employees and others will learn how to use the IT Accessibility Policy Framework to improve the conformance of Information and Communications Technology (ICT).
---
The General Services Administration's (GSA) Government-wide IT Accessibility Program will host the first bimonthly IT Accessibility Community Meeting of the year on Tuesday, February 13, 2024, from 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM ET.

During the meeting, federal employees and others will learn how to use the <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/manage/policy-framework/introduction/">IT Accessibility Policy Framework</a> to improve the conformance of Information and Communications Technology (ICT). The framework is designed to help attendees evaluate and update their agency's IT accessibility policies and procedures.

Following an overview of the framework, attendees will apply their newfound knowledge in an instructor-led workshop where they will use the <a href="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/files/Policy+Review+Template.xlsx" target="_blank" class="usa-link--external">Policy Review Template (XLXS)</a> workbook to assess sample policies.

Registered participants will receive copies of sample policies and the <a href="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/files/Policy+Review+Template.xlsx" target="_blank" class="usa-link--external">Policy Review Template (XLSX)</a> workbook in their registration confirmation email.

This presentation and workshop supports the "comprehensive assessment of agency policies" action required of federal agencies by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) memorandum <a href="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/management/ofcio/m-24-08-strengthening-digital-accessibility-and-the-management-of-section-508-of-the-rehabilitation-act/" target="_blank" class="usa-link--external">Strengthening Digital Accessibility and the Management of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act (M-24-08)</a>.

**To maximize the benefit of this training, participants should review the sample policies before the event as little time will be allocated for initial reading.**

## EVENT DETAILS
**DATE:** Tuesday, February 13, 2024  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM (EST)  
**WHERE:** Virtual  
**WHO:** Section 508 Program Managers, policy and process officials, and others involved in the implementation of Section 508

## REGISTRATION
<strong><a href="https://feedback.gsa.gov/jfe/form/SV_5oTpel5cSHiqOl8" target="_blank">Registration</a> is now open and will close Monday, February 12 at 12:00 PM ET.</strong> Sign up today!

## NOTICES
* This virtual meeting is supported by Zoom for Government (FedRAMP certified). Feel free to attend via your personal device. 
* **Participants must join the meeting using their first and last name**. Agency affiliation is optional​. 
* The meeting host will **record** the event for internal use, and reserves the right to share, publish and distribute without additional notice. Attendance is considered consent.
* Nicknames and unidentified phone numbers will not be given access.

**Reviewed/Updated:** February 2024