---
title: IT Accessibility Community Meeting | June 11, 2024
layout: wide_events
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: Tuesday, June 11 2024 13:00 #otherwise use end-date
image:
image-alt: 
permalink: /event/itacm-jun2024/
description: Save-the-Date! The June IT Accessibility Community Meeting (ITACM) will be held on Tuesday, June 11, 2024 from 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM ET. During the meeting, document authors and others will learn how to create accessible tables in electronic documents. 
---
The General Services Administration’s (GSA) Government-wide IT Accessibility Program will host an IT Accessibility Community Meeting on Tuesday, June 11, 2024, from 1 PM to 3:00 PM ET.

This session will introduce you to accessible tables in electronic documents. During the session, we will review tables in Word, Excel, and PowerPoint. We will convert a document to PDF with tables and remediate the document. The presentation will include information on:

* Creating tables in Microsoft
    * Word
    * PowerPoint
    * Excel
* Converting to PDF
* Remediating tables in PDF
* Best practices for accessible tables

**Presenter:**  
Marra Piazza Brass, MSEd, Document Accessibility Specialist at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).

## EVENT DETAILS
**DATE:** Tuesday, June 11, 2024  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM (EST)  
**WHERE:** Virtual  
**WHO:** Authors of electronic documents, content managers, publishers, and Section 508 Program Managers

## REGISTRATION
<a href="https://feedback.gsa.gov/jfe/form/SV_5u6Y2ayQOdhmP5A" target="_blank">Registration</a> is now open and will close Monday, June 10 at 12:00 PM ET. <strong><a href="https://feedback.gsa.gov/jfe/form/SV_5u6Y2ayQOdhmP5A" target="_blank">Sign up today!</a></strong>

## NOTICES
* This virtual meeting is supported by Zoom for Government (FedRAMP certified). Feel free to attend via your personal device. 
* **Participants must join the meeting using their first and last name**. Agency affiliation is optional​. 
* The meeting host will **record** the event for internal use, and reserves the right to share, publish and distribute without additional notice. Attendance is considered consent.
* Nicknames and unidentified phone numbers will not be given access.

**Reviewed/Updated:** May 2024