---
layout: wide_events
title: Testing with Web Browser-based Developer Tools | ITACM
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: 2024-08-06 #otherwise use end-date
permalink: /event/itacm-aug2024/
description: Save-the-date to boost your accessibility testing skills with our upcoming training event on web browser DevTools!
created: 2024-07-19
---
Boost your accessibility testing skills with our upcoming training event on DevTools! Both Edge and Chrome feature powerful built-in web development tools, known as DevTools, that allow you to thoroughly inspect web pages and web apps.

In this training, participants will learn how to:

* Open and navigate DevTools Accessibility features.
* Inspect and analyze web page elements.
* Obtain detailed accessibility information.
* Verify support for screen readers.

Don't miss this opportunity to enhance your expertise in accessibility testing!

**Presenter:**  
Shawn Garmer, Department of Education.

## EVENT DETAILS
**DATE:** Tuesday, August 6, 2024  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM (EST)  
**WHERE:** Virtual  
**WHO:** Authors of electronic documents, content managers, publishers, and Section 508 Program Managers

## REGISTRATION
Registration for this event has closed.

## NOTICES
* This virtual meeting is supported by Zoom for Government (FedRAMP certified). Feel free to attend via your personal device. 
* **Participants must join the meeting using their first and last name**. Agency affiliation is optional​. 
* The meeting host will **record** the event for internal use, and reserves the right to share, publish and distribute without additional notice. Attendance is considered consent.
* Nicknames and unidentified phone numbers will not be given access.

