---
title: IT Accessibility Community Meeting | April 2024
layout: wide_events
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: Tuesday, April 2 2024 13:00 #otherwise use end-date
image:
image-alt: 
permalink: /event/itacm-apr2024/
description: Save-the-Date! The April IT Accessibility Community Meeting (ITACM) will be held on Tuesday, April 2, 2024 from 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM ET. During the meeting, document authors and others will learn about PDF accessibility and learn how to examine and repair inaccessible PDF documents. 
---
The General Services Administration’s (GSA) Government-wide IT Accessibility Program will host the second bimonthly IT Accessibility Community Meeting of the year on Tuesday, April 2, 2024, from 1 PM to 2:30 PM ET.

This session will introduce you to PDF Accessibility. During the session, we will review an accessible PDF, repair a partially accessible PDF, and examine and repair an inaccessible PDF. The presentation will include information on:

* Checking PDF accessibility
* Using the built-in Accessibility Checker
* Reading Order Tool 
* Tag tree 
* Walking the tag tree
* Editing and repairing the tag tree 

## EVENT DETAILS
**DATE:** Tuesday, April 2, 2024  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM - 2:30 PM (EST)  
**WHERE:** Virtual  
**WHO:** Authors of electronic documents, content managers, publishers, and Section 508 Program Managers

## REGISTRATION
<strong><a href="https://feedback.gsa.gov/jfe/form/SV_9uDScEcl9r4KBYa" target="_blank">Registration</a> is now open and will close Monday, April 1 at 12:00 PM ET.</strong> Sign up today!

## NOTICES
* This virtual meeting is supported by Zoom for Government (FedRAMP certified). Feel free to attend via your personal device. 
* **Participants must join the meeting using their first and last name**. Agency affiliation is optional​. 
* The meeting host will **record** the event for internal use, and reserves the right to share, publish and distribute without additional notice. Attendance is considered consent.
* Nicknames and unidentified phone numbers will not be given access.

**Reviewed/Updated:** March 2024