---
layout: wide_events
title: IT Accessibility Community Meeting | August 2025
description: Learn how the EPA integrated Section 508 into its ATO process—embedding accessibility across the lifecycle and aligning IT, security, and compliance.
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: Tuesday, August 5 2025 13:00 #otherwise use end-date
permalink: /event/itacm-aug2025/
created: 2025-07-22
updated: 
---

The General Services Administration’s (GSA) Government-wide IT Accessibility Program will host an IT Accessibility Community Meeting on Tuesday, August 5, 2025, from 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM ET.

Join us for an in-depth session on showcasing how the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has successfully integrated Section 508 accessibility requirements into its Authority to Operate (ATO) process to ensure digital compliance of IT systems. 

Attendees will learn how accessibility checkpoints were embedded throughout the system development lifecycle—connecting roles across IT, security, and compliance to proactively address Section 508. The session will cover an explanation of the 508-ATO process as well as practical strategies, documentation templates, and key lessons learned that other agencies could adapt to reduce risk and improve accessibility outcomes. 

Whether you're in governance, development, or policy, this session provides a model for making accessibility a core part of your ATO framework.

Don’t miss this opportunity to learn how to embed IT accessibility across all your information and communication technology efforts.
 
**Presenters from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA):**  
Jennifer Nelson  
Michael La  
Psyche Lewis   
Sarah Sorathia      

## Event Details
**DATE:** Tuesday, August 5, 2025  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM  
**WHERE:** Virtual  
**WHO:** Section 508 PMs, Authorizing Officials, Information System Security Officer, Security Assessor, and System Owners.

## Registration
<a href="https://gsa.zoomgov.com/meeting/register/LlyHeNefRXqpDnvgslwqxw" target="_blank">Registration</a> is now open and will close Monday, August 4 at 3:00 PM ET. <strong><a href="https://gsa.zoomgov.com/meeting/register/LlyHeNefRXqpDnvgslwqxw" target="_blank">Sign up today!</a></strong>

## Notices
* This virtual meeting will be hosted on Zoom for Government (FedRAMP certified). You may join using a personal device.
* Live captions and ASL interpretation will be provided. To request additional accommodations, please email section.508@gsa.gov by Thursday, July 31, 2025.
* Participants must join using their full name; agency affiliation is optional. Access will not be granted to nicknames or unidentified phone numbers.
* Members of the press must self-identify during registration.
* The meeting will be recorded for internal use. The host may share, publish, or distribute the recording. By attending, you consent to this use.

**Reviewed/Updated:** July 2025
