---
title: IT Accessibility Community Meeting | April 2025
layout: wide_events
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: Tuesday, April 15 2025 13:00 #otherwise use end-date
image:
image-alt: 
permalink: /event/itacm-apr2025/
created: 2025-04-03
updated: 
description: Save-the-date to boost your accessibility testing skills with our upcoming training event on web browser DevTools!
---
The General Services Administration’s (GSA) Government-wide IT Accessibility Program will host an IT Accessibility Community Meeting on Tuesday, April 15, 2025, from 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM ET.

Join us for an in-depth session on the Section 508 Assessment, and IT accessibility-based Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). This event is designed for the IT Accessibility implementors and management professionals across your agency — including acquisition officials, project managers, developers, and content owners — who each play a critical role in ensuring compliance throughout the IT lifecycle.

Learn how to turn reporting into actionable improvements, track progress with meaningful KPIs, and empower your teams to embed accessibility from procurement through delivery. 

Don’t miss this opportunity to turn reporting into real accessibility improvements.
 
**Presenter:**  
Michael Horton&mdash;General Services Administration
Kristen Smith-O'Connor&mdash;General Services Administration
Alex Wilson&mdash;General Services Administration

## EVENT DETAILS
**DATE:** Tuesday, April 15, 2025  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM (EST)  
**WHERE:** Virtual  
**WHO:** Section 508 Program Managers, key stakeholders, project managers, IT Accessibility implementors, reporting officials, and others involved in the compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. 

## REGISTRATION
<a href="https://gsa.zoomgov.com/meeting/register/YfVwR_FfRsuMlr2USyrLYQ" target="_blank">Registration</a> is now open and will close Monday, April 14 at 12:00 PM ET. <strong><a href="https://gsa.zoomgov.com/meeting/register/YfVwR_FfRsuMlr2USyrLYQ" target="_blank">Sign up today!</a></strong>

## NOTICES
* This virtual meeting is supported by Zoom for Government (FedRAMP certified). Feel free to attend via your personal device.
* Participants must join the meeting using their first and last name; inclusion of agency affiliation is optional​.
* Members of the press are required to identify themselves during the registration process.
* The meeting host will record the event for internal use, and reserves the right to share, publish and distribute without additional notice. Attendance is considered consent.
* Nicknames and unidentified phone numbers will not be given access.

**Reviewed/Updated:** April 2025