---
layout: wide_events
title: Leveraging ServiceNow for Section 508 Compliance at FDIC | ITACM
description: Learn how the FDIC uses ServiceNow platform to streamline, track, and manage its digital accessibility program.
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: 2025-10-14 #otherwise use end-date
permalink: /event/itacm-oct2025/
---

The General Services Administration’s (GSA) Government-wide IT Accessibility Program will host an IT Accessibility Community Meeting on Tuesday, October 14, 2025, from 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM ET.

Join the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Section 508 Program Manager (PM) for an in-depth discussion on how the FDIC utilizes the ServiceNow platform to streamline, track, and manage its digital accessibility program. The session will explore how the FDIC has configured ServiceNow to support a comprehensive set of Section 508 compliance activities including:
 
* Documenting remediation requests
* Training
* VPAT/ACR reviews
* ICT application testing
* Section 508 exceptions
 
The Program Manager will also discuss the importance of effective ticket management for ensuring timely compliance and demonstrate how the FDIC uses ServiceNow’s reporting capabilities—such as charts and data exports—to deliver  meaningful insights to leadership and monitor program performance.
 
Whether you’re considering automation for accessibility workflows or seeking ways to scale 508 compliance across your agency or organization, this session will provide practical insights, lessons learned, and actionable takeaways.
 
**Presenters from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC):**  
Brooke Aiken      

## Event Details
**DATE:** Tuesday, October 14, 2025  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM ET  
**WHERE:** Virtual  
**WHO:** Section 508 Program Managers, Authorizing Officials, Chief Information Officers.

## Registration
<a href="https://gsa.zoomgov.com/meeting/register/XVa4Q5MhRtut89V4YcIN1w#/registration" target="_blank">Registration</a> is now open and will close Friday, October 10 at 3:00 PM ET. <strong><a href="https://gsa.zoomgov.com/meeting/register/XVa4Q5MhRtut89V4YcIN1w#/registration" target="_blank">Sign up today!</a></strong>

## Notices
* This virtual meeting will be hosted on Zoom for Government (FedRAMP certified). You may join using a personal device.
* Live captions and ASL interpretation will be provided. To request additional accommodations, please email section.508@gsa.gov by Thursday, October 9, 2025.
* Participants must join using their full name; agency affiliation is optional. Access will not be granted to nicknames or unidentified phone numbers.
* Members of the press must self-identify during registration.
* The meeting will be recorded for internal use. The host may share, publish, or distribute the recording. By attending, you consent to this use.

**Reviewed/Updated:** September 2025
