---
layout: wide_events
title: Integrating a Risk Management Framework into Information and Communication Technology (ICT) | ITACM
description: How to move beyond identifying conformance issues and strategically evaluate the risks of inaccessible ICT. 
start-date: #only fill in start date if the events spans multiple days
end-date: 2026-02-24 #otherwise use end-date
permalink: event/itacm-feb2026/
---

The General Services Administration’s (GSA) Government-wide IT Accessibility Program will host an IT Accessibility Community Meeting on Tuesday, February 24, 2026, from 1:00 PM to 3:00 PM ET.

The GSA team presents this session to bridge the gap between "finding bugs" and managing compliance risks. Instead of viewing accessibility as an endless checklist, participants will learn to apply a Risk Management Framework to Information and Communication Technology (ICT). We will move beyond simply identifying conformance issues and help teams look strategically at the risks of inaccessible ICT and ways to mitigate these risks. 

Attendees will gain takeaways to,
 
* **Translate data to action:** turn unambiguous test results and known conformance issues into a remediation roadmap with clear ownership and timelines.
* **Utilize risk tools:** understand available Accessibility Risk Management Framework tools and templates for use in analyzing ICT accessibility risk at your organization.
* **Score and prioritize:** use a risk-scoring matrix to categorize risks by severity and prioritize actions to address these risks.  
 
**Presenters from the General Services Administration:**  
Alex Wilson      

## Event Details
**DATE:** Tuesday, February 24, 2026  
**TIME:** 1:00 PM ET  
**WHERE:** Virtual  
**WHO:** Section 508 Program Managers, Project Managers, Chief Information Officers, IT Accessibility implementors

## Registration
<a href="https://gsa.zoomgov.com/meeting/register/D73sybBkQl6MpygSFN65Kw#/registration" target="_blank">Registration</a> is now open. <strong><a href="https://gsa.zoomgov.com/meeting/register/D73sybBkQl6MpygSFN65Kw#/registration" target="_blank">Sign up today!</a></strong>

## Notices
* This virtual meeting will be hosted on Zoom for Government (FedRAMP certified). You may join using a personal device.
* Live captions and ASL interpretation will be provided. To request additional accommodations, please email section.508@gsa.gov by Thursday, February 19, 2026.
* Participants must join using their full name; agency affiliation is optional. Access will not be granted to nicknames or unidentified phone numbers.
* Members of the press must self-identify during registration.
* The meeting will be recorded for internal use. The host may share, publish, or distribute the recording. By attending, you consent to this use.

**Reviewed/Updated:** February 2026

