---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
description: In Module 8 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how to add links to a presentation so that each link has a unique and descriptive name to allow assistive technology users to determine the destination, function or purpose of links.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Website Managers/Content Managers (wcm)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Presentations
resource-type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 8 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how to add links to a presentation so that each link has a unique and descriptive name to allow assistive technology users to determine the destination, function or purpose of links.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-08-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 8, creating links with unique and descriptive names. This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint presentation section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: When adding links to a PowerPoint presentation, you must make sure that each link has a unique and descriptive name.</p>
    <p>VO: Additionally, the purpose of the link should be discernible when reading the surrounding content.</p>
    <p>VO: Assistive technology users rely on meaningful names to determine the destination, function, or purpose of links.</p>
    <p>VO: For example, multiple click here links confuse assistive technology users because the name for each link is the same while the destinations may be different.</p>
    <p>VO: PowerPoint automatically creates a hyperlink when a user pastes a full URL onto a slide and presses Enter or Space.</p>
    <p>VO: Raw URLs may not make sense to screen reader users or others, so make the link descriptive.</p>
    <p>VO: To insert a link, copy the URL, select the desired text in your presentation. Right click or hold Shift and press F10, select Link.</p>
    <p>VO: Paste the link into the address field and select OK. To change the link text, right click the link and select Edit link.</p>
    <p>VO: A dialog will appear. Click in the Text to Display field at the top of the dialog and enter descriptive link text.</p>
    <p>VO: Note, deleting the last character in the link name will remove the link. If you are creating a presentation that is intended to be displayed electronically, as well as being provided as a printout, you may want to include the URL and description in the link text.</p>
    <p>VO: For example, gsa section 508 and then www.section508.gov. To test for accessibility, find hyperlinks within a slide.</p>
    <p>VO: Do the links have meaningful names that describe their destination, function, and or purpose, or are these determinable within context?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. On this slide, the link Click Here is unclear and has no context.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is not accessible. This slide contains two links, www.section508.gov and get my Section 508 questions answered.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is considered accessible because the links are uniquely named or their destination, function, and or purpose can be determined through context.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 8. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * **Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names**
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
