---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: spreadsheet training
title: 'Module 1: Using Built-in Features to Organize Content and Ensure Logical Reading Order'
permalink: training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx01/
redirect_from:
- create/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx01/
description: Learn how to use built-in features (cell styles, heading levels, and data table formats) to ensure that spreadsheets and workbooks are structured in a logical reading order.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- "federal employee (fedemp)"
- "508 Program Manager (508pm)"
- "Developers and Testers (dev-test)"
- "Content Creators (creator)"
- "Public (public)"
topic: "Training (train)"
subtopic: "Spreadsheets"
resource-type: "Training"
format: "Video & Synchronized Media (video)"
created: 2020-01-20
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

Learn how to use built-in features (cell styles, heading levels, and data table formats) to ensure that spreadsheets and workbooks are structured in a logical reading order.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-xlsx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-xlsx-01-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Excel.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 1, using built-in features to organize content and ensure logical reading order.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make an Excel worksheet Section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: The logical reading order for an Excel spreadsheet is always left to right and top to bottom.</p>
    <p>VO: The starting point for the reading order is cell A1. To help individuals understand how content is structured in the spreadsheet, consider doing the following.</p>
    <p>VO: If the spreadsheet is part of a workbook, make sure each spreadsheet tab has a descriptive and unique name.</p>
    <p>VO: The name of the tab should provide a clue to what information is being covered in the spreadsheet.</p>
    <p>VO: Use the cell style tool to apply heading levels, otherwise known as section levels, such as title in heading level one through level nine.</p>
    <p>VO: To modify the appearance of the heading level, right click on the heading level and select modify.</p>
    <p>VO: If the content in the spreadsheet needs to be in a data table format, use the format as table tool.</p>
    <p>VO: Identify the table template that best meets your needs, then modify the template by right clicking on the template and selecting modify.</p>
    <p>VO: Lastly, if data cells require special formatting, use the format tool to format the cell.</p>
    <p>VO: When creating an Excel spreadsheet, it is important to consider the following best practices.</p>
    <p>VO: One, start all worksheets and cell A1. Two, do not span content over multiple rows or columns.</p>
    <p>VO: Does each sheet have a visual and/or logical reading order left to right then top to bottom?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, it fails this test. Can the sheet be navigated using the up, down, right or left arrow keys?</p>
    <p>VO: And does it match the visual and logical reading order? If not, it fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: This table includes content that spans more than one row and column. Therefore, the sheet cannot be navigated according to the logical reading order using the up, down, right and left arrow keys.</p>
    <p>VO: This table is inaccessible. This table is considered accessible because the content is organized according to the visual and logical reading order and the sheet can be navigated using the arrow keys.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 1. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to get a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Spreadsheet Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * **Module 1: Using Built-in Features to Organize Content and Ensure Logical Reading Order**
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][4]
  * [Module 5: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][6]
  * [Module 7: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][7]
  * [Module 8: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][8]
  * [Module 9: Excluding Flashing Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Saving in the .xlsx Format with a Descriptive Filename][10]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx10/
