---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: spreadsheet training
title: 'Module 4: Making Vital Background Information Accessible'
permalink: training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx04/
redirect_from:
- create/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx04/
description: Learn how to ensure that vital information, created as a watermark or placed in the Header or Footer of the slide, can be accessed by assistive technology.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- Federal Employees
- Section 508 Program Managers
- Developers
- Content Creators
- Members of the Public
topic: Training
subtopic: Spreadsheets
resource-type: Training
format: Video
created: 2020-01-20
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

Learn how to ensure that vital information, created as a watermark or placed in the Header or Footer of the slide, can be accessed by assistive technology.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-xlsx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-xlsx-04-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Excel.</p>
    <p>VO: This is module four, making vital background information accessible. This video is one in a series showing how to make an Excel worksheet, section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: When adding content to a worksheet, vital information may be created as a watermark or placed in the header or footer.</p>
    <p>VO: When doing this, the content cannot be accessed by assistive technology. Assistive technology does not automatically read information in headers, footers, and watermarks.</p>
    <p>VO: So you need to duplicate any vital information in cell A1. Look for vital information in headers, footers, and watermarks.</p>
    <p>VO: For example, respond by x state, confidential, or do not distribute. Note, watermarks in Excel are floating objects and cannot be made accessible.</p>
    <p>VO: Is the vital information duplicated in the first cell of the worksheet? If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: This example includes vital information in the header that is not duplicated in the first cell of the worksheet.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is not accessible because this vital information is not included in the reading order.</p>
    <p>VO: In this worksheet, the vital information in the header do not distribute, is duplicated in the first cell of the worksheet.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is accessible. Thank you for watching Module 4.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Spreadsheet Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Using Built-in Features to Organize Content and Ensure Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics are Also Described in Text][3]
  * **Module 4: Making Vital Background Information Accessible**
  * [Module 5: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][6]
  * [Module 7: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][7]
  * [Module 8: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][8]
  * [Module 9: Excluding Flashing Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Saving in the .xlsx Format with a Descriptive Filename][10]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx10/
