---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: document training
title: 'Module 1: Save as a Word Document (.docx) with a Descriptive Filename'
permalink: training/documents/aed-cop-docx01/
redirect_from:
- create/documents/aed-cop-docx01/
description: In Module 1 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, discover how a descriptive file name that identifies the document or its purpose helps everyone, including people with disabilities, locate, open, and switch between documents.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- "federal employee (fedemp)"
- "508 Program Manager (508pm)"
- "Developers and Testers (dev-test)"
- "Content Creators (creator)"
- "Public (public)"
topic: "Training (train)"
subtopic: "Documents"
resource-type: "Training"
format: "Video & Synchronized Media (video)"
created: 2020-01-22
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 1 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, discover how a descriptive file name that identifies the document or its purpose helps everyone, including people with disabilities, locate, open, and switch between documents.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-docx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-docx-01-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Word.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 1, save as a word document.docx with a descriptive file name.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make a Word document Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Introduction. A descriptive file name that identifies the document or its purpose is required, as it helps everyone locate, open, and switch between documents.</p>
    <p>VO: In addition, the document must be in the docx format. The authoring and testing instructions in each section are only for Microsoft Word documents using that file extension.</p>
    <p>VO: How to author accessibly. To author accessibly, let's begin by opening a new document.</p>
    <p>VO: Once it's open, go to File and select Save As. In the File Name field, type a descriptive name for your file.</p>
    <p>VO: Next, in the drop-down menu below the file name, ensure the Save As type field is set to WordDocument.docx.</p>
    <p>VO: Now, press the Enter key on your keyboard or click the Save button at the bottom of the dialog box to save your file.</p>
    <p>VO: How to check your work. To check your work, look at the title bar at the very top of the Microsoft Word application window.</p>
    <p>VO: Check that the file name is descriptive and that it identifies the document or its purpose.</p>
    <p>VO: Also, ensure that the document is saved in the .docx file format. Inaccessible examples.</p>
    <p>VO: Let's look at some inaccessible examples. Document1.doc is not an accessible file because the file name is not descriptive and it is not saved in the proper .docx format.</p>
    <p>VO: Another inaccessible example is application.docx, since the file name is not descriptive.</p>
    <p>VO: Yesterday's list.docm is a macro enabled file and therefore cannot be tested with these test instructions.</p>
    <p>VO: Accessible examples. Now, let's look at some accessible examples.</p>
    <p>VO: OMB Report 387 2016 v2.docx, cell phone request application 2016.docx, and AEDCOP attendance 2016.docx are all considered accessible since the files are saved in the .docx format and the file names are descriptive.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 1. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and find additional information at section 508.gov.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is a product of the accessible electronic document community of practice and the US Department of Transportation.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Documents Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * **Module 1: Save as a Word Document (.docx) with a Descriptive Filename**
  * [Module 2: Use Styles to Create Headings][2]
  * [Module 3: Use Built-in Features to Create Lists][3]
  * [Module 4: Use Built-in Features to Organize Content][4]
  * [Module 5: Use Built-in Features to Create Layout and Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Identify Distinct Languages][6]
  * [Module 7: Create Unambiguous Names for Links][7]
  * [Module 8: Duplicate Vital Information in Headers, Footers and Watermarks][8]
  * [Module 9: Create Accessible Images and Other Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Create Accessible Textboxes][10]
  * [Module 11: Use Color and Other Sensory Characteristics Plus Text to Convey Meaning][11]
  * [Module 12: Create the Required Color Contrast][12]
  * [Module 13: Create Accessible Embedded Files][13]


[0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx00/
[1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx01/
[2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx02/
[3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx03/
[4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx04/
[5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx05/
[6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx06/
[7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx07/
[8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx08/
[9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx09/
[10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx10/
[11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx11/
[12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx12/
[13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx13/
