---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
description: In Module 2 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, understand when choosing the color palette for your slide&rsquo;s design, close attention must be given to ensuring that there is enough color contrast between foreground and background.
disclaimer: In Module 2 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, understand when choosing the color palette for your slide&rsquo;s design, close attention must be given to ensuring that there is enough color contrast between foreground and background.
audience:
- Federal Employees
- Section 508 Program Managers
- Developers
- Content Creators
- Members of the Public
topic: Training
subtopic: Presentations
resource-type: Training
format: Video
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 2 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, understand when choosing the color palette for your slide&rsquo;s design, close attention must be given to ensuring that there is enough color contrast between foreground and background.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-02-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is module two, ensuring the contrast ratio between text and background is sufficient.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint document section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: When choosing the color palette for your slide designs, close attention must be given to ensuring that there is a strong enough color contrast between the foreground and background.</p>
    <p>VO: People who are color blind or have low vision will only have comparable access if there is sufficient contrast between the text and the background.</p>
    <p>VO: The color contrast standards are 4.5 to 1 for standard text, meaning text which is 12 point and regular, and 3 to 1 for large text, meaning text which is 14 point and bold, or 18 point and regular.</p>
    <p>VO: Incidental text, text overlaid on images, and logo types are excluded from this requirement.</p>
    <p>VO: Note, if the document text is black on white background or close to it, you do not need to perform this test.</p>
    <p>VO: Determining the contrast between the text and background requires a color contrast analyzer, an external application which can be downloaded at http colon forward slash forward slash www.pacielogroup.com forward slash resources forward slash contrast analyzer.</p>
    <p>VO: Create content with text or images of text that use color or shading with sufficient color contrast.</p>
    <p>VO: You must test color contrast to ensure that it is sufficient. If the contrast ratio does not pass, then adjust your foreground and background until it does pass.</p>
    <p>VO: Open the color contrast analyzer. Drag the foreground eyedropper icon over a sample of your text or image of text.</p>
    <p>VO: Drag the background eyedropper icon over a sample of your background color. Have you formatted the color contrast ratio greater than 4.5 to 1 for standard text, or 3 to 1 for large text?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. Thank you for watching Module 2.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * **Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient**
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]

## Related Resource
  * [Testing Tools for Web][14] - Information to download the Colour Contrast Analyser


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
 [14]: {{site.baseurl}}/tools/tools-for-testing-ict/#testing-tools-for-web
