---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
description: 
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- 508 Program Manager (508pm)
- Developers and Testers (dev-test)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Presentations
resource_type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module: 13 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, discover how a descriptive file name identifying the document or its purpose helps everyone, including people with disabilities, locate, open, and switch between documents.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-13-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 13, saving in the .pptx format with a descriptive file name.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint presentation, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: A descriptive file name identifying the document or its purpose helps everyone, including people with disabilities, locate, open, and switch between documents.</p>
    <p>VO: In addition, the document must be saved in the .pptx format, because these authoring and testing instructions will only work if the document is saved in this .pptx format.</p>
    <p>VO: Let's begin by opening a new document. Once it's open, select the File tab, then save as a PowerPoint presentation in the .pptx format, and make sure you save the document with a descriptive file name.</p>
    <p>VO: To check your work, look at the file name in Windows Explorer or check the title bar within Microsoft PowerPoint.</p>
    <p>VO: Note, if the file extension is not displayed, open your Documents folder in Windows Explorer, select View, then check File Name Extensions.</p>
    <p>VO: Examine the file name. Is the file name descriptive, and does it identify the document or its purpose?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. Is the file saved in the PowerPoint .pptx format?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. Let's look at this inaccessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: Presentation 1.ppt is not an accessible file, because the file name is not descriptive, and it is not saved in the proper .pptx format.</p>
    <p>VO: The file must be in the .pptx format for accessibility testing to be possible.</p>
    <p>VO: Now, let's look at this accessible example. Accessible electronic documents .pptx is considered accessible, since the file is saved in the .pptx format, and the file name is descriptive.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 13. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series, and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * **Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename**

**Reviewed/Updated**: March 2026

 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
