---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: document training
title: 'Module 13: Create Accessible Embedded Files'
permalink: training/documents/aed-cop-docx13/
redirect_from:
 - create/documents/aed-cop-docx13/
description: In Module 13 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, learn how to embed audio-only, video-only or multimedia files into your document so individuals with disabilities have comparable access to the information.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- 508 Program Manager (508pm)
- Developers and Testers (dev-test)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Documents
resource_type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-22
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 13 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, learn how to embed audio-only, video-only or multimedia files into your document so individuals with disabilities have comparable access to the information.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-docx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-docx-13-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Word.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 13, Create Accessible Embedded Files. This video is one in a series showing how to make a Word document, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Introduction. If you embed an audio only, video only, or multimedia file that contains meaningful information into your Word document, you must also provide additional information so that individuals with disabilities have comparable access to that information.</p>
    <p>VO: How to author accessibly. To author accessibly, do the following.</p>
    <p>VO: For an audio only file, you must include an accurate and complete transcript in your Word document.</p>
    <p>VO: A transcript is a text version of exactly what is being said in the audio file. For a video only file, you must include an accurate and complete text description in your Word document.</p>
    <p>VO: A text description is a text version of what is being shown in a video only file. For multimedia, which is a file containing both audio and video, you must provide accurate and complete synchronized captioning and audio descriptions.</p>
    <p>VO: Captions are a time synchronized text version of exactly what is being said, and/or a description of the relevant sounds in the multimedia file.</p>
    <p>VO: Audio descriptions are time synchronized descriptions of what is being shown in the multimedia file. How to check your work.</p>
    <p>VO: To check your work, you will need to activate the meaningful audio only, video only, or multimedia file.</p>
    <p>VO: While it is playing, compare the corresponding text transcript, text description, or synchronized captions and audio description to ensure it is accurate and complete.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 13. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and can find additional information at section 508.gov.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is a product of the accessible electronic document community of practice and the U.S. Department of Transportation.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Documents Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Save as a Word Document (.docx) with a Descriptive Filename][1]
  * [Module 2: Use Styles to Create Headings][2]
  * [Module 3: Use Built-in Features to Create Lists][3]
  * [Module 4: Use Built-in Features to Organize Content][4]
  * [Module 5: Use Built-in Features to Create Layout and Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Identify Distinct Languages][6]
  * [Module 7: Create Unambiguous Names for Links][7]
  * [Module 8: Duplicate Vital Information in Headers, Footers and Watermarks][8]
  * [Module 9: Create Accessible Images and Other Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Create Accessible Textboxes][10]
  * [Module 11: Use Color and Other Sensory Characteristics Plus Text to Convey Meaning][11]
  * [Module 12: Create the Required Color Contrast][12]
  * **Module 13: Create Accessible Embedded Files**

[0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx00/
[1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx01/
[2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx02/
[3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx03/
[4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx04/
[5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx05/
[6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx06/
[7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx07/
[8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx08/
[9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx09/
[10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx10/
[11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx11/
[12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx12/
[13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx13/
