---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
description: In Module 11 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how to embed audio-only, video-only or multimedia files into your presentation so that individuals with disabilities have comparable access to the information.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- "federal employee (fedemp)"
- "508 Program Manager (508pm)"
- "Developers and Testers (dev-test)"
- "Content Creators (creator)"
- "Public (public)"
topic: "Training (train)"
subtopic: "Presentations"
resource_type: "Training"
format: "Video & Synchronized Media (video)"
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 11 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how to embed audio-only, video-only or multimedia files into your presentation so that individuals with disabilities have comparable access to the information.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-11-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 11. Ensuring descriptions of embedded audio, video, and multimedia files are accurate.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint presentation, Section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: If you embed an audio-only, video-only, or a multimedia file that contains meaningful information into your Microsoft PowerPoint document, you must also provide additional information so that individuals with disabilities have comparable access to the information.</p>
    <p>VO: When embedding audio-only media in a presentation, an accurate and complete transcript must be included.</p>
    <p>VO: Video-only files must be accompanied with an accurate and complete text description. Multimedia files or files that include both audio and video must have accurate and complete synchronized captions and audio descriptions.</p>
    <p>VO: Activate the audio-only, video-only, or multimedia file embedded within your presentation to begin testing for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: Is there an accurate and complete text transcript for audio files, text description for video files, or synchronized caption and audio description for multimedia files?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. This audio file embedded on this slide does not include an accurate and complete transcript.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is inaccessible. Let's activate this multimedia file to determine whether synchronized captions and audio descriptions have been included.</p>
    <p>VO: This is a sample multimedia file. Dear Greys in a field, ducks swim across a pond, birds fly over a river.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is accessible. Thank you for watching Module 11.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * **Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate**
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
