---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
description: In Module 6 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how to use the built-in table features so that assistive technology can read a data tables information in a meaningful manner.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Website Managers/Content Managers (wcm)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Presentations
resource_type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 6 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how to use the built-in table features so that assistive technology can read a data tables information in a meaningful manner.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-06-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is module six, using built-in features to create data tables.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint presentation section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Data tables are a useful way to organize and present information in a presentation.</p>
    <p>VO: To ensure data tables are created with accessibility in mind, the tables must be created using the built-in table features, so that assistive technology can read the tables information in a meaningful manner.</p>
    <p>VO: Pictures of tables or tables with merged or split cells are not accessible because the information in the table cannot be read in a way that accurately conveys the information in the table.</p>
    <p>VO: Additionally, data tables must not be contained within another table. To create accessible data tables, select the Insert tab, then in the Table group, select Insert Table.</p>
    <p>VO: Select the number of columns and rows you desire. Do not merge or split cells.</p>
    <p>VO: Note, if you need a complex data table, a table with more than one header row, one or more header column, and/or merged or split cells, then you must convert the presentation to an accessible format such as a PDF document remediated for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: Complex data tables cannot be made accessible within Microsoft PowerPoint.</p>
    <p>VO: To identify headers in a table, one, click inside the table.</p>
    <p>VO: The table tools options should become visible and the Table Design tab should be open.</p>
    <p>VO: Two, if the top row of the table contains headers for each column, as most tables do, make sure the header row checkbox is selected.</p>
    <p>VO: Three, if the first column of the table contains headers for each row, make sure the first column checkbox is selected.</p>
    <p>VO: In the Table Styles section, select a style where the table headers are clearly identified visually.</p>
    <p>VO: Make sure the style has good contrast. To determine if a table is accessible, select the table.</p>
    <p>VO: If the Picture Format tab shows up in the ribbon, instead of the table tools options, then the table is a picture.</p>
    <p>VO: If the document contains pictures of tables, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: Place your cursor on a table and use the Tab key to move between cells.</p>
    <p>VO: Make sure cells don't span more than one column or row, which would indicate merged or split cells.</p>
    <p>VO: Are the tables free of merged or split cells? If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: When we select this table, the Picture Format tab appears in the ribbon, instead of the table tools options.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is not accessible. When we select this table, the table tools options appear in the ribbon.</p>
    <p>VO: But, when we tab between cells, we can see that it contains merged cells.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is not accessible. In this example, the table tools options appear when we select the table, and the table does not contain merged or split cells.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is considered accessible. Thank you for watching Module 6.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * **Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables**
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
