---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: document training
title: 'Module 8: Duplicate Vital Information in Headers, Footers and Watermarks'
permalink: training/documents/aed-cop-docx08/
redirect_from:
 - create/documents/aed-cop-docx08/
description: In Module 8 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, earn how to ensure that vital information, created as a watermark or placed in the header of footer of the slide, can be accessed by assistive technology.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- Federal Employees
- Content Creators
- Web Content Managers
- Members of the Public
topic: Training
subtopic: Documents
resource-type: Training
format: Video
created: 2020-01-22
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 8 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, earn how to ensure that vital information, created as a watermark or placed in the header of footer of the slide, can be accessed by assistive technology.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-docx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-docx-08-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Word.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 8, duplicate vital information in headers, footers, and watermarks.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make a Word document, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Introduction. Screen readers do not automatically read information contained in the headers, footers, and watermarks of Word documents.</p>
    <p>VO: When vital information such as response date, security levels, or distribution instructions are placed in these areas, that same information must be duplicated at or near the start of the main content area.</p>
    <p>VO: How to author accessibly. To author accessibly, you must duplicate any vital information that is located in the header, footer, or watermark.</p>
    <p>VO: The duplicated text should be placed at or near the start of the related information, such as the beginning of your document or the start of a particular section.</p>
    <p>VO: How to check your work. To check your work, you should first look over your document for any vital information displayed in headers, footers, or watermarks.</p>
    <p>VO: If there is vital information in any of those locations, go to the start of the related information and ensure that you have duplicated that vital information in a secondary location.</p>
    <p>VO: Inaccessible example. Let's look at an inaccessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: In this example, the words draft document are displayed in the header, but it is not repeated in the body of the document.</p>
    <p>VO: Accessible example. Now, let's look at an accessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: This example has the same draft document text displayed in the header, but it is also repeated in the main content area of the document.</p>
    <p>VO: This document is considered accessible, because the vital information is duplicated and is now easily available to assistive technology.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 8. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and can find additional information at section 508.gov.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is a product of the accessible electronic document community of practice and the US Department of Transportation.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Documents Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Save as a Word Document (.docx) with a Descriptive Filename][1]
  * [Module 2: Use Styles to Create Headings][2]
  * [Module 3: Use Built-in Features to Create Lists][3]
  * [Module 4: Use Built-in Features to Organize Content][4]
  * [Module 5: Use Built-in Features to Create Layout and Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Identify Distinct Languages][6]
  * [Module 7: Create Unambiguous Names for Links][7]
  * **Module 8: Duplicate Vital Information in Headers, Footers and Watermarks**
  * [Module 9: Create Accessible Images and Other Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Create Accessible Textboxes][10]
  * [Module 11: Use Color and Other Sensory Characteristics Plus Text to Convey Meaning][11]
  * [Module 12: Create the Required Color Contrast][12]
  * [Module 13: Create Accessible Embedded Files][13]

[0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx00/
[1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx01/
[2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx02/
[3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx03/
[4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx04/
[5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx05/
[6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx06/
[7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx07/
[8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx08/
[9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx09/
[10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx10/
[11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx11/
[12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx12/
[13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx13/
