---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
description: In Module 12 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how flashing objects can cause seizures and should never be used and cannot be considered accessible. Warning&colon; This video demonstrates a type of flashing object that should never be used.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- "Federal Employees"
- "Section 508 Program Managers"
- "Developers"
- "Content Creators"
- "Members of the Public"
topic: "Training"
subtopic: "Presentations"
resource-type: "Training"
format: "Video"
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 12 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how flashing objects can cause seizures and should never be used and cannot be considered accessible. Warning: This video demonstrates a type of flashing object that should never be used.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-12-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 12, excluding flashing objects. This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint presentation, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Flashing objects can cause seizures and should never be used. A Microsoft PowerPoint presentation that includes flashing objects cannot be considered accessible.</p>
    <p>VO: Create your content without using flashing objects. Is the document free of all flashing objects?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. This example includes a flashing object.</p>
    <p>VO: This is not accessible. This presentation does not include flashing objects.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is accessible. Thank you for watching Module 12.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * **Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects**
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
