---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: spreadsheet training
title: 'Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics are Also Described in Text'
permalink: training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx03/
redirect_from:
- create/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx03/
description: Discover how to use visual characteristics, such as color, size, shape, and location to convey meaning when creating your worksheet.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- 508 Program Manager (508pm)
- Developers and Testers (dev-test)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Spreadsheets
resource_type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-20
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

Discover how to use visual characteristics, such as color, size, shape, and location to convey meaning when creating your worksheet.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-xlsx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-xlsx-03-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Excel.</p>
    <p>VO: This is module three, ensuring colors and other visual characteristics that convey information are also described in text.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make an Excel Worksheet section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: When using color in your Excel Worksheets, you must not only think about having a strong color contrast between the foreground and background, but you must also consider how color and other visual characteristics such as size, shape, and location are used to convey meaning.</p>
    <p>VO: Without taking these things into consideration, individuals who are blind, have low vision, or are color blind, will not have equal access to information.</p>
    <p>VO: The following layout tables describe the progress for three projects using colors to symbolize the current project status.</p>
    <p>VO: Adding text in addition to color provides comparable information to users of assistive technology and people who are color blind.</p>
    <p>VO: To ensure that information is conveyed excessively, always use text to duplicate the meaning of color or visual characteristics such as size, shape, and location.</p>
    <p>VO: You will find where you have used color and/or visual characteristics to convey meaning such as green, yellow, red, etc.</p>
    <p>VO: Is there text that conveys the meaning of the color or other visual characteristics? If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is not accessible because the status of Project A has been described with color alone and has not been duplicated in text.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is considered accessible because information conveyed with color has also been described in text.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 3. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Spreadsheet Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Using Built-in Features to Organize Content and Ensure Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * **Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics are Also Described in Text**
  * [Module 4: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][4]
  * [Module 5: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][6]
  * [Module 7: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][7]
  * [Module 8: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][8]
  * [Module 9: Excluding Flashing Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Saving in the .xlsx Format with a Descriptive Filename][10]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx10/
