---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: document training
title: 'Module 6: Identify Distinct Languages'
permalink: training/documents/aed-cop-docx06/
redirect_from:
 - create/documents/aed-cop-docx06/
description: In Module 6 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, discover how to use the proofing language settings to programmatically set the document language and enable assistive technology to read and correctly pronounce content.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- Federal Employees
- Content Creators
- Web Content Managers
- Members of the Public
topic: Training
subtopic: Documents
resource-type: Training
format: Video
created: 2020-01-22
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 6 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, discover how to use the proofing language settings to programmatically set the document language and enable assistive technology to read and correctly pronounce content.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-docx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-docx-06-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Word.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 6, Identify Distinct Languages. This video was one in a series showing how to make a Word document, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Introduction. Some of the documents you create can contain sections written in different languages to meet the needs of various customers.</p>
    <p>VO: Since green readers cannot infer meeting from just text alone, it is important to identify these distinct languages.</p>
    <p>VO: This creates a structure that allows assistive technology to identify and read all languages correctly.</p>
    <p>VO: You do not have to send a language for proper names, technical terms, or foreign words that have become a part of common English usage.</p>
    <p>VO: How to author accessibly? To author accessibly, use the Set Proofing Language feature in Microsoft Word.</p>
    <p>VO: To set a different language, you will first need to select the text that is written in a different language.</p>
    <p>VO: Then go to the Review tab, click on the Language button, and then choose Set Proofing Language from the submenu of options.</p>
    <p>VO: A dialog box will pop up displaying a list of languages. Select the appropriate language and then click OK.</p>
    <p>VO: How to check your work. To check your work, first place your cursor on any section of text that is in a different language.</p>
    <p>VO: Then go to the Review tab of the navigation ribbon. Click on the Language button and select Set Proofing Language from the submenu.</p>
    <p>VO: Verify that the correct language is selected. Inaccessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: Let's look at an inaccessible example. Let's select the text of this Spanish poem as an example.</p>
    <p>VO: Now let's go to the Review tab, select Language, and click on Set Proofing Language. Notice that this Spanish text is incorrectly identified as English.</p>
    <p>VO: This would be inaccessible for assistive technology. Accessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: Now let's look at an accessible example. Here is the same text of that Spanish poem.</p>
    <p>VO: We'll select the text, go to the Review tab on the navigation ribbon, click on Language, and select Set Proofing Language.</p>
    <p>VO: In this example, the language is correctly identified as Spanish, so this is considered accessible.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 6. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and can find additional information at section 508.gov.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is a product of the accessible electronic document Community of Practice and the U.S. Department of Transportation.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Documents Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Save as a Word Document (.docx) with a Descriptive Filename][1]
  * [Module 2: Use Styles to Create Headings][2]
  * [Module 3: Use Built-in Features to Create Lists][3]
  * [Module 4: Use Built-in Features to Organize Content][4]
  * [Module 5: Use Built-in Features to Create Layout and Data Tables][5]
  * **Module 6: Identify Distinct Languages**
  * [Module 7: Create Unambiguous Names for Links][7]
  * [Module 8: Duplicate Vital Information in Headers, Footers and Watermarks][8]
  * [Module 9: Create Accessible Images and Other Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Create Accessible Textboxes][10]
  * [Module 11: Use Color and Other Sensory Characteristics Plus Text to Convey Meaning][11]
  * [Module 12: Create the Required Color Contrast][12]
  * [Module 13: Create Accessible Embedded Files][13]


[0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx00/
[1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx01/
[2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx02/
[3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx03/
[4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx04/
[5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx05/
[6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx06/
[7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx07/
[8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx08/
[9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx09/
[10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx10/
[11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx11/
[12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx12/
[13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx13/
