---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: document training
title: 'Module 9: Create Accessible Images and Other Objects'
permalink: training/documents/aed-cop-docx09/
redirect_from:
 - create/documents/aed-cop-docx09/
description: 
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Website Managers/Content Managers (wcm)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Documents
resource_type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-22
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module: 9 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, learn that assistive technology cannot infer meaning from images and other objects, such as pictures, images of text, images of tables, shapes, and icons with hyperlinks. Discover how to apply &ldquo;alt text&rdquo; to objects to ensure equivalent access to the visual information.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-docx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-docx-09-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Word.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 9, create accessible images and other objects.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make a Word document, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Introduction. Screen readers and other assistive technology cannot infer meaning from images or other graphical objects like pictures, images of text, images of tables, shapes, icons with hyperlinks, graphs, charts, etc.</p>
    <p>VO: Therefore, you must take additional steps to ensure this type of content is accessible.</p>
    <p>VO: One requirement is to ensure images and objects are placed in line with text, so that assistive technology can read them in the proper reading order.</p>
    <p>VO: Another requirement is to add descriptive text to those same images and objects.</p>
    <p>VO: Descriptive text is simply a textural description of the information conveyed through the image or picture.</p>
    <p>VO: There are three ways to add descriptive text to images and other objects.</p>
    <p>VO: One, add alternative text or alt text. Two, use captions.</p>
    <p>VO: Or three, include information in surrounding text or in an appendix.</p>
    <p>VO: When creating descriptive text, there are a couple of things you should keep in mind.</p>
    <p>VO: The text should describe the purpose and/or function of meaningful objects.</p>
    <p>VO: If the image or object is decorative or not meaningful, you should use a space or double quote space, double quote as a descriptive text.</p>
    <p>VO: If the object is an image of text, then the alt text must match the text verbatim.</p>
    <p>VO: How to author accessibly. To author accessibly, let's start by placing your image or object in line with text.</p>
    <p>VO: To do this, first click on the image or object. Then, go to the page layout tab in the navigation ribbon.</p>
    <p>VO: In the arrange section, click on position and select in line with text.</p>
    <p>VO: Now, let's add alt text. We'll begin by clicking on the image or object.</p>
    <p>VO: Now, right click and select format picture. Note, it might also say format object or format chart, depending on the type of element you are selecting.</p>
    <p>VO: After selecting format picture, click on the layout and properties icon, and then select alt text.</p>
    <p>VO: If you are using Microsoft Word 2010, you will click on alt text after selecting format picture.</p>
    <p>VO: Add the appropriate information in the field labeled description. If you are working with a meaningful image or object, enter text that describes the purpose and or function.</p>
    <p>VO: Keep your description brief. It should be about 250 characters or less.</p>
    <p>VO: If you are working with a decorative object or image, enter a space or double quote space, double quote.</p>
    <p>VO: After typing the appropriate text, click on the close button.</p>
    <p>VO: How to check your work. To check your work, verify that all images and objects are in line with text, and that you have descriptive text either as alt text, a caption, or as a description in the surrounding text or in an appendix.</p>
    <p>VO: To test if an object is in line with text, you can run Microsoft's accessibility checker to see if you receive any errors for object not in line.</p>
    <p>VO: To run the accessibility checker, go to the file menu and select info. Then click on the button for check for issues and select check accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: The results will display in a window pane on the right hand side of the screen. Check that there are no errors for object not in line.</p>
    <p>VO: To test that your images or objects have alt text, you should right click on an image or object and select the appropriate format option.</p>
    <p>VO: In this case, we will select format picture. Next, select the icon for layout and properties and select alt text.</p>
    <p>VO: If your image or object is meaningful, verify that there is a description of about 250 characters or less that states the purpose and/or function of the visual element.</p>
    <p>VO: If your image or object is decorative and not meaningful, the description should include a double quote space, double quote.</p>
    <p>VO: Inaccessible examples. Let's look at an inaccessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: For this image, someone has entered alt text of logo.jpg. That's considered inaccessible because it's a file name and does not accurately describe the federal agency or company to which the seal or logo belongs.</p>
    <p>VO: This next inaccessible example is a decorative image. The description states, "This is a picture of 15 balloons.</p>
    <p>VO: There are four purple balloons, two green balloons, three blue balloons, two red balloons, two brown balloons, and two yellow balloons."</p>
    <p>VO: Since this is a decorative image, the alt text should be, "double quote space, double quote."</p>
    <p>VO: Let's also go ahead and check to see if the image is positioned in line with text. The accessibility checker has already been run and the results are displayed on the right side of the document.</p>
    <p>VO: The results indicate the picture is not in line, so this is not accessible.</p>
    <p>VO: Accessible example. Now, let's look at an accessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: We'll select the logo for the accessible electronic document, "Community of Practice."</p>
    <p>VO: The alt text for this image states, "Accessible electronic document, Community of Practice, AEDCOP logo."</p>
    <p>VO: This description describes the purpose or function, so it is accessible.</p>
    <p>VO: Now, let's ensure that it is positioned in line with text. In the accessibility checker results, we do not see anything listed for "Not in line," so we know it is accessible.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 9. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and can find additional information at section 508.gov.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is a product of the accessible electronic document, "Community of Practice," and the U.S. Department of Transportation.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Documents Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Save as a Word Document (.docx) with a Descriptive Filename][1]
  * [Module 2: Use Styles to Create Headings][2]
  * [Module 3: Use Built-in Features to Create Lists][3]
  * [Module 4: Use Built-in Features to Organize Content][4]
  * [Module 5: Use Built-in Features to Create Layout and Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Identify Distinct Languages][6]
  * [Module 7: Create Unambiguous Names for Links][7]
  * [Module 8: Duplicate Vital Information in Headers, Footers and Watermarks][8]
  * **Module 9: Create Accessible Images and Other Objects**
  * [Module 10: Create Accessible Textboxes][10]
  * [Module 11: Use Color and Other Sensory Characteristics Plus Text to Convey Meaning][11]
  * [Module 12: Create the Required Color Contrast][12]
  * [Module 13: Create Accessible Embedded Files][13]

<div class="border-base radius-lg border-1px" style="margin-top: 1.5em;">
<div class="padding-1">
<p class="text-large"><strong>Before You Go</strong></p>
<p>We're always working to improve the information and resources on this website. To suggest a new resource for this or another page, please <a href="mailto:section.508@gsa.gov">contact us
</a>.</p>
</div>
</div>

**Reviewed/Updated**: March 2026

[0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx00/
[1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx01/
[2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx02/
[3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx03/
[4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx04/
[5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx05/
[6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx06/
[7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx07/
[8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx08/
[9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx09/
[10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx10/
[11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx11/
[12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx12/
[13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx13/
