---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: spreadsheet training
title: 'Module 10: Saving in the .xlsx Format With a Descriptive Filename'
permalink: training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx10/
redirect_from:
- create/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx10/
description: 
disclaimer: 
audience:
- "federal employee (fedemp)"
- "508 Program Manager (508pm)"
- "Developers and Testers (dev-test)"
- "Content Creators (creator)"
- "Public (public)"
topic: "Training (train)"
subtopic: "Spreadsheets"
resource_type: "Training"
format: "Video & Synchronized Media (video)"
created: 2020-01-20
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---


[comment]: <> (# Module 10: Saving in the .xlsx Format with a Descriptive Filename)

<p style="font-size:115%">
  From: How to Author and Test Microsoft Excel Worksheets for Accessibility
</p>

* * *

Discover how a descriptive file name identifying the worksheet or its purpose helps everyone, including people with disabilities, locate, open, and switch between documents.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-xlsx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-xlsx-10-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Excel.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 10, saving in the .excel.sx format with a descriptive file name. This video is one in a series showing how to make an Excel worksheet, Section 508, conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: A descriptive file name identifying the document or its purpose helps everyone, including people with disabilities, locate, open, and switch between documents.</p>
    <p>VO: In addition, the document must be saved in the .excel.sx format, because these authoring and testing instructions will only work if the document is saved in the .excel.sx file format.</p>
    <p>VO: Let's begin by opening a new document. Once it is open, select the File tab, then Save As.</p>
    <p>VO: Save the document as an Excel workbook in the .excel.sx file format, and make sure to save the document with a descriptive file name.</p>
    <p>VO: To check your work, look at the file name in Windows Explorer, or the title bar in Microsoft Excel.</p>
    <p>VO: An example of a descriptive file name is FundingBudget.excel.sx. The file must be saved in the .excel.sx format for accessibility testing to be possible.</p>
    <p>VO: Note, if the document extension is not displayed, open your Documents folder in Windows Explorer, select View, and check File Name Extensions.</p>
    <p>VO: Is the file name descriptive, and does it identify the document or its purpose? If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: Is the file saved as an Excel workbook in the .excel.sx format? If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: Spreadsheet1.xls is not an accessible file, because the file name is not descriptive, and it is not saved in the proper .excel.sx format.</p>
    <p>VO: The file must be saved in the .excel.sx format for accessibility testing to be possible. FundingBudget.excel.sx is considered accessible, since the file is saved in the .excel.sx format, and the file name is descriptive.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 10. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series, and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the accessible electronic document community of practice, Chief Information Officers' Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Spreadsheet Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Using Built-in Features to Organize Content and Ensure Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][4]
  * [Module 5: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][6]
  * [Module 7: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][7]
  * [Module 8: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][8]
  * [Module 9: Excluding Flashing Objects][9]
  * **Module 10: Saving in the .xlsx****&nbsp;Format with a Descriptive Filename**

**Reviewed/Updated**: March 2026

 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx10/
