---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: document training
title: 'Module 2: Use Styles to Create Headings'
permalink: training/documents/aed-cop-docx02/
redirect_from:
- create/documents/aed-cop-docx02/
description: In Module 2 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, learn how to add headings and formatting to a document so assistive technology can infer meaning from the document structure and formatted characters using built-in styles.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- 508 Program Manager (508pm)
- Developers and Testers (dev-test)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Documents
resource_type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-22
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 2 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, learn how to add headings and formatting to a document so assistive technology can infer meaning from the document structure and formatted characters using built-in styles.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-docx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-docx-02-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Word.</p>
    <p>VO: This is module two, use styles to create headings. This video is one in a series showing how to make a Word document, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Introduction. Headings are names or labels that are used to break up content and make finding information easier.</p>
    <p>VO: Assistive technology cannot infer meaning from formatting characteristics alone, such as bolded or underlined text.</p>
    <p>VO: Using Microsoft Word's built-in styles will create a structure that assistive technology can quickly access and interpret.</p>
    <p>VO: How to author accessibly. To author accessibly, click on the Home tab in the navigation ribbon.</p>
    <p>VO: Go to the Styles section and choose one of the available styles from the gallery.</p>
    <p>VO: Use styles such as Heading 1, Heading 2, Heading 3, etc. when creating headings in your document.</p>
    <p>VO: One way to use a style is to select one of the available styles from the gallery, and then start typing a title or heading in your document.</p>
    <p>VO: Another way to apply a style to text is to type your heading first and then select a style from the gallery that you would like to use.</p>
    <p>VO: If your document contains multiple heading levels, such as Major, Section, Subheading, etc.</p>
    <p>VO: and each level is visually different, then you must use a separate style for each heading level.</p>
    <p>VO: You can modify the visual characteristics of any style in order to create the desired look and feel of your document.</p>
    <p>VO: How to check your work. To check your work, first open the navigation pane.</p>
    <p>VO: This can be done by going to the View tab in the navigation ribbon and checking the box for navigation pane, or by using the Control-F keyboard shortcut.</p>
    <p>VO: Once the navigation pane is open, ensure the tab for "Headings" is selected.</p>
    <p>VO: Now verify that all of your headings appear in the navigation pane and that they match the visual outline of your document.</p>
    <p>VO: Inaccessible example. Let's look at an inaccessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: Notice that there is text in the document that is formatted to look like headings, but none of the headings show up in the navigation pane.</p>
    <p>VO: This means that the structural information necessary for assistive technology is not present.</p>
    <p>VO: Accessible example. Now let's look at an inaccessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: The document looks the same as the previous example, but now the major heading, section heading, and minor heading are displayed in the navigation pane.</p>
    <p>VO: The heading structure also matches the visual outline of the document. Thank you for watching Module 2.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and can find additional information at section 508.gov.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is a product of the accessible electronic document "Community of Practice" and the U.S. Department of Transportation.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Documents Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Save as a Word Document (.docx) with a Descriptive Filename][1]
  * **Module 2: Use Styles to Create Headings**
  * [Module 3: Use Built-in Features to Create Lists][3]
  * [Module 4: Use Built-in Features to Organize Content][4]
  * [Module 5: Use Built-in Features to Create Layout and Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Identify Distinct Languages][6]
  * [Module 7: Create Unambiguous Names for Links][7]
  * [Module 8: Duplicate Vital Information in Headers, Footers and Watermarks][8]
  * [Module 9: Create Accessible Images and Other Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Create Accessible Textboxes][10]
  * [Module 11: Use Color and Other Sensory Characteristics Plus Text to Convey Meaning][11]
  * [Module 12: Create the Required Color Contrast][12]
  * [Module 13: Create Accessible Embedded Files][13]


[0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx00/
[1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx01/
[2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx02/
[3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx03/
[4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx04/
[5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx05/
[6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx06/
[7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx07/
[8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx08/
[9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx09/
[10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx10/
[11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx11/
[12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx12/
[13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx13/
