---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 0: Introduction & Background'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
redirect_from:
- create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
description: In Module 0 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn the minimum steps needed to ensure your powerpoint presentation is Section 508 conformant.
audience:
- "Federal Employees"
- "Section 508 Program Managers"
- "Developers"
- "Content Creators"
- "Members of the Public"
topic: "Training"
sub-topic: "Presentations"
resource-type: "Training"
format: "Video"
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 0 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn the minimum steps needed to ensure your powerpoint presentation is Section 508 conformant.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-00-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is module zero, introduction, and background. This video is one in a series of videos that explain and demonstrate the minimum steps that need to be performed to ensure your PowerPoint presentation is section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Each module is divided into five sections. Topic introduction, how to author for accessibility, how to test for accessibility, and accessible examples, accessible examples.</p>
    <p>VO: Upon completing this series, you will be exposed to the importance of authoring PowerPoint presentations with accessibility in mind, and the limitations created for persons with disabilities when presentations are not section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: In October 2012, subject matter experts from several federal agencies developed an accessible electronic document community of practice, or AED-COP with the goal of improving accessible content, advancing the field of accessibility, and creating accessible artifacts reusable across many agencies.</p>
    <p>VO: Federal agencies and other institutions create millions of documents and presentations each year.</p>
    <p>VO: When creating content, authors shouldn't sure that the content is accessible so that persons with disabilities, such as blind or low vision, deaf or hard of hearing, physical disability, and cognitive disabilities can have equal access to information.</p>
    <p>VO: When accessing electronic information, persons with disabilities may utilize assistive technology, otherwise known as AT.</p>
    <p>VO: An example of AT is a screen reader or text to speech software.</p>
    <p>VO: These tools assist individuals with disabilities by reading out loud visual and non-visual electronic content by interpreting words on the page and translating them to a computerized voice that reads the information.</p>
    <p>VO: Accessible documents and presentations work in partnership with assistive technology to ensure individuals with disabilities have full access to the information that is being presented.</p>
    <p>VO: To keep up to date on the latest guidance on authoring and testing, a wide variety of electronic content for accessibility, visit www.section508.gov/refresh-toolkit/test.</p>
    <p>VO: To make it easier to learn how to create, test, and remediate Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for Section 508 conformance, this course covers.</p>
    <p>VO: Document formatting, text formatting, object formatting, color formatting, and audio, video, and synchronized media topics.</p>
    <p>VO: This course does not cover presentations with macros or programmed formatting saved in the PPTM format.</p>
    <p>VO: These documents are better tested with a software baseline test process, which is located at www.section508.gov, Microsoft PowerPoint for PC with forms enabled, and restricted documents which cannot be tested.</p>
    <p>VO: To remove restrictions, go to the File tab, Emfo, then Protect Presentation. Select Restricted Permission by People, and check Unrestricted Access.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module Zero. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * **Module 0: Introduction & Background**
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
