---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: document training
title: 'Module 10: Create Accessible Textboxes'
permalink: training/documents/aed-cop-docx10/
redirect_from:
 - create/documents/aed-cop-docx10/
description: 
disclaimer: 
audience:
- "federal employee (fedemp)"
- "508 Program Manager (508pm)"
- "Developers and Testers (dev-test)"
- "Content Creators (creator)"
- "Public (public)"
topic: "Training (train)"
subtopic: "Documents"
resource_type: "Training"
format: "Video & Synchronized Media (video)"
created: 2020-01-22
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module: 10 of the Make an Accessible Document in Microsoft Word video series, learn that assistive technology cannot access information in text boxes unless they are placed &ldquo;in line with text.&rdquo; Learn how to ensure information within a text box is accessible.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-docx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-docx-10-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Word.</p>
    <p>VO: This is module 10, create accessible text boxes. This video is one in a series showing how to make a Word document, section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Introduction. Screen readers and other assistive technology cannot access information in text boxes unless they are placed in line with text.</p>
    <p>VO: Therefore, you must ensure the text boxes are in line so that assistive technology can read the content inside text boxes.</p>
    <p>VO: How to author accessibly. To author accessibly, click on a text box in your document.</p>
    <p>VO: In the navigation ribbon, go to the Page Layout tab, and in the Arrange section, select Position.</p>
    <p>VO: Choose the option for in line with text. How to check your work.</p>
    <p>VO: To check your work, run the Microsoft Accessibility Checker to see if you receive any errors for Object Not In Line.</p>
    <p>VO: To run the Accessibility Checker, go to the File menu, select Info, click on the button for Check for Issues, and select Check Accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: The results will display in a window on the right side of the screen. Check that there are no errors for Object Not In Line.</p>
    <p>VO: In accessible example. Let's look at an inaccessible example.</p>
    <p>VO: After running the Accessibility Checker, there are no text boxes listed as Object Not In Line.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 10. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and can find additional information at section 508.gov.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Company.</p>
    <p>VO: It is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Company. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice and the U.S. Department of Transportation.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Documents Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Save as a Word Document (.docx) with a Descriptive Filename][1]
  * [Module 2: Use Styles to Create Headings][2]
  * [Module 3: Use Built-in Features to Create Lists][3]
  * [Module 4: Use Built-in Features to Organize Content][4]
  * [Module 5: Use Built-in Features to Create Layout and Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Identify Distinct Languages][6]
  * [Module 7: Create Unambiguous Names for Links][7]
  * [Module 8: Duplicate Vital Information in Headers, Footers and Watermarks][8]
  * [Module 9: Create Accessible Images and Other Objects][9]
  * **Module 10: Create Accessible Textboxes**
  * [Module 11: Use Color and Other Sensory Characteristics Plus Text to Convey Meaning][11]
  * [Module 12: Create the Required Color Contrast][12]
  * [Module 13: Create Accessible Embedded Files][13]

<div class="border-base radius-lg border-1px" style="margin-top: 1.5em;">
<div class="padding-1">
<p class="text-large"><strong>Before You Go</strong></p>
<p>We're always working to improve the information and resources on this website. To suggest a new resource for this or another page, please <a href="mailto:section.508@gsa.gov">contact us
</a>.</p>
</div>
</div>

**Reviewed/Updated**: March 2026

[0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx00/
[1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx01/
[2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx02/
[3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx03/
[4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx04/
[5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx05/
[6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx06/
[7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx07/
[8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx08/
[9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx09/
[10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx10/
[11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx11/
[12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx12/
[13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/documents/aed-cop-docx13/
