---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
description: In Module 9 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how to ensure that vital information, created as a watermark or placed in the Header of Footer of the slide, can be accessed by assistive technology.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- Federal Employees
- Content Creators
- Web Content Managers
- Members of the Public
topic: Training
subtopic: Presentations
resource-type: Training
format: Video
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 9 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, learn how to ensure that vital information, created as a watermark or placed in the Header of Footer of the slide, can be accessed by assistive technology.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-09-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 9, making vital background information accessible. This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint presentation, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: When adding content to slides, vital information might be placed on the slide master created as a watermark or placed in the header or footer of the slide.</p>
    <p>VO: When doing this, the content cannot be accessed by assistive technology. Therefore, vital information must be represented in the body of the slide and headers and footers must be enabled.</p>
    <p>VO: To enable headers and footers in your presentation, select the Insert tab. Then in the text group, select Header and Footer.</p>
    <p>VO: Check the Footer option, type in the vital information, and select Apply. Look for vital information in the headers, footers, and watermarks.</p>
    <p>VO: Vital information may include text such as respond by ex-date, confidential, or do not distribute.</p>
    <p>VO: To determine if this vital information is included in the reading order, go to the Home tab in the drawing group, select Arrange, then Selection Pane.</p>
    <p>VO: Can the vital information be selected within the selection pane? If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: When we navigate to the selection pane, we are not able to select the word confidential.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is not accessible because this vital information is not included in the reading order.</p>
    <p>VO: On this slide, the header contains the vital information do not distribute. When we navigate to the selection pane, we are able to select this information.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is considered accessible. Thank you for watching Module 9.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * **Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible**
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
