---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
description: 
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- 508 Program Manager (508pm)
- Developers and Testers (dev-test)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Presentations
resource_type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module: 3 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, discover how to consider color and other visual characteristics, such as size, shape, and location are used to convey meaning when creating your presentation.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-03-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 3, ensuring colors and other visual characteristics that convey information are also described in text.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint presentation, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: When using color in your PowerPoint presentations, in addition to ensuring that you have a strong color contrast between the foreground and background, you must also consider how using color and other visual characteristics such as size, shape, and location are used to convey meaning.</p>
    <p>VO: Without taking these things into consideration, individuals who are blind, have low vision or are color blind will not have equal access to information.</p>
    <p>VO: The following layout tables describe the progress for three projects using color to symbolize the current project status.</p>
    <p>VO: Adding text in addition to color provides comparable information to users of assistive technology and people who are color blind.</p>
    <p>VO: To ensure that the information conveyed is accessible, always use text to duplicate the meaning of the color or visual characteristics such as size, shape, and location.</p>
    <p>VO: Find where you have used color and or other visual characteristics to convey meaning such as green, yellow, red, etc.</p>
    <p>VO: Is there text that conveys the meaning of the color or visual characteristics?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. This example is not accessible because the status of Project A has been described with color alone and has not been duplicated in text.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is considered accessible because the information conveyed with color has also been described in text.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 3. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * **Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text**
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]

**Reviewed/Updated**: March 2026

 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
