---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
description: In Module 5 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, discover how to use lists to organize and structure content so that assistive technology can identify that information is contained in a group, and convey the relationship between each item within the list.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- 508 Program Manager (508pm)
- Developers and Testers (dev-test)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Presentations
resource-type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module 5 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, discover how to use lists to organize and structure content so that assistive technology can identify that information is contained in a group, and convey the relationship between each item within the list.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-05-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 5, formatting lists correctly. This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint presentation Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Using lists in a presentation is an excellent way to organize and structure content.</p>
    <p>VO: When lists are created properly, assistive technology can identify the information is contained in a group, and can also convey the relationship between each item contained within the list.</p>
    <p>VO: Assistive technology users cannot infer meaning if a list is simulated by using tabs, dashes, or numbers.</p>
    <p>VO: Using the built-in list features applies the formatting that assistive technology needs to both identify and present lists in a meaningful way to users with disabilities.</p>
    <p>VO: Select the Home tab in the paragraph group, select the bullets or numbering option when using lists in your presentation.</p>
    <p>VO: When formatting content using the built-in list features, you can select the list feature you want and then type your list item or type your list item and then select the list feature you want to use.</p>
    <p>VO: To test for accessibility, place your cursor on a list item. Determine if one of the list formatting indicators located in the paragraph area of the Home tab is selected.</p>
    <p>VO: Is the list formatting in the paragraph group highlighted? If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: This list has been typed using dashes in place of bullets. When the cursor is placed on one of the list items, we can see that neither list formatting indicator is selected.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is not accessible because the list was not formatted using the built-in list features.</p>
    <p>VO: When we place the cursor on this example, we can see that it has been created using the bullets option.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is considered accessible. Thank you for watching Module 5.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly][4]
  * **Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly**
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
