---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: spreadsheet training
title: 'Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient'
permalink: training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx02/
redirect_from:
- create/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx02/
description: When choosing the color palette for your slide designs, close attention must be given to ensure there is a strong color contrast between the foreground and background. See examples of good and bad color contrast, and the how to use tools to determine if your spreadsheet has sufficient contrast.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- 508 Program Manager (508pm)
- Developers and Testers (dev-test)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Spreadsheets
resource_type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-20
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

When choosing the color palette for your slide designs, close attention must be given to ensure there is a strong color contrast between the foreground and background. See examples of good and bad color contrast, and the how to use tools to determine if your spreadsheet has sufficient contrast.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-xlsx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-xlsx-02-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Excel.</p>
    <p>VO: This is module two, ensuring the contrast ratio between text and background is sufficient.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make an Excel worksheet section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: When choosing the color palette for your slide designs, close attention must be given to ensuring that there is a strong color contrast between the foreground and background.</p>
    <p>VO: People who are color blind or have low vision will only have comparable access if there is sufficient color contrast between the text and the background.</p>
    <p>VO: The contrast standards are 4.5 to 1 for standard text, which is 12 point and regular, and 3 to 1 for large text, text which is 14 point and bold, or 18 point and regular.</p>
    <p>VO: Incidental text, text overlaid on images, and the logo types are excluded from this requirement.</p>
    <p>VO: Note, if the document text is black on white background or close to it, you do not need to perform this test.</p>
    <p>VO: Determining the contrast between the text and the background requires the color contrast analyzer, an external application which can be downloaded at www.pacielogroup.com/resources/contrastanalyzer.</p>
    <p>VO: People who are color blind or have low vision will only have comparable access if there is sufficient contrast between the text and the background.</p>
    <p>VO: When you create content with text or images of text that use color or shading, ensure that they have sufficient color contrast.</p>
    <p>VO: If the contrast ratio does not pass, then adjust your foreground and background until it passes.</p>
    <p>VO: Execute the color contrast analyzer. Select download.</p>
    <p>VO: The application can be executed without downloading it onto your computer. Open the color contrast analyzer.</p>
    <p>VO: Drag the foreground eyedropper icon over a sample of your text or image of text. Now drag the background eyedropper icon over a sample of your background color.</p>
    <p>VO: Have you formatted the color contrast ratio greater than 4.5 to 1 for standard text or 3 to 1 for large text?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. This table illustrates some common examples of good color contrast as well as insufficient color contrast.</p>
    <p>VO: White text on black background, dark green text on yellow background, light blue text on dark blue background, and white text on red background all have good color contrast ratios.</p>
    <p>VO: Dark gray text on black background, orange text on yellow background, red text on blue background, and dark green text on red background all have insufficient color contrast and therefore are not accessible.</p>
    <p>VO: Thank you for watching Module 2. You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508 visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Spreadsheet Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Using Built-in Features to Organize Content and Ensure Logical Reading Order][1]
  * **Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient**
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][4]
  * [Module 5: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][6]
  * [Module 7: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][7]
  * [Module 8: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][8]
  * [Module 9: Excluding Flashing Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Saving in the .xlsx Format with a Descriptive Filename][10]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx10/
