---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: presentation training
title: 'Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly'
permalink: training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
redirect_from:
 - create/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
description: 
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- 508 Program Manager (508pm)
- Developers and Testers (dev-test)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Presentations
resource_type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-07
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

In Module: 4 of the How to Author and Test Microsoft PowerPoint Presentations for Accessibility video series, understand when modifying a slide&rsquo;s layout, it may be necessary to structure content into columns. Learn how to ensure that content is read in the proper reading order by using the column tool.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-pptx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width: 100%;"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-pptx-04-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to author and test Microsoft PowerPoint presentations for accessibility.</p>
    <p>VO: This is module four, formatting columns correctly. This video is one in a series showing how to make a PowerPoint presentation section 508 conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: When modifying a slides layout, it may be necessary to structure content into columns.</p>
    <p>VO: To ensure that the content is read in the proper logical reading order, the column tool must be used.</p>
    <p>VO: Assistive technology cannot read information in the correct reading order when tabs or spaces have been used to create the look of content being divided into columns.</p>
    <p>VO: To create columns, select the Home tab and in the Paragraph group, select the Add or Remove Columns option and choose a number of columns desired when creating columnar text.</p>
    <p>VO: To determine whether columns have been formatted correctly, place a cursor on columnar text, select the Home tab, and in the Paragraph group, select the Add or Remove Columns option to determine if columnar formatting is enabled.</p>
    <p>VO: Are the correct number of columns highlighted? If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: In this example, the columns appear normal, but when we inspect the Add or Remove Columns option, we can see that the columns were not created using this tool.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is not accessible because the columns were created using tabs and spaces instead of the column tool.</p>
    <p>VO: When we select this example and inspect the Add or Remove Columns feature, we can see that the correct number of columns is highlighted.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is considered accessible. Thank you for watching Module 4.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Presentation Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Creating the Presentation's Layout Design and Establishing the Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics that Convey Information are Also Described in Text][3]
  * **Module 4: Formatting Columns Correctly**
  * [Module 5: Formatting Lists Properly][5]
  * [Module 6: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][6]
  * [Module 7: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][7]
  * [Module 8: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][8]
  * [Module 9: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][9]
  * [Module 10: Formatting Text for the Intended Language][10]
  * [Module 11: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][11]
  * [Module 12: Excluding Flashing Objects][12]
  * [Module 13: Saving in the .pptx Format with a Descriptive Filename][13]

**Reviewed/Updated**: March 2026

 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx10/
 [11]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx11/
 [12]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx12/
 [13]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/presentations/aed-cop-pptx13/
