---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: spreadsheet training
title: 'Module 8: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate'
permalink: training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx08/
redirect_from:
- create/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx08/
description: Learn how to embed audio-only, video-only or multimedia files into your worksheet so individuals with disabilities have comparable access to the information.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Website Managers/Content Managers (wcm)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Spreadsheets
resource-type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-20
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

Learn how to embed audio-only, video-only or multimedia files into your worksheet so individuals with disabilities have comparable access to the information.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-xlsx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-xlsx-08-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Excel.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 8, ensuring descriptions of embedded audio, video, and multimedia files are accurate.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make an Excel worksheet, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: If you embed an audio only, video only, or multimedia file that contains meaningful information into your Microsoft Excel worksheet, you must also provide additional information so that individuals with disabilities have comparable access to the information.</p>
    <p>VO: When embedding audio-only media into a worksheet, an accurate and complete transcript must also be included.</p>
    <p>VO: Video only files must be accompanied with an accurate and complete text description. Multimedia files, which are files that include both audio and video, must have accurate and complete synchronized captions and audio descriptions.</p>
    <p>VO: Note, if the document does not contain audio, video, or multimedia files, you do not need to perform this test.</p>
    <p>VO: Activate the audio only, video only, or multimedia file. Is there an accurate and complete text description for audio files, text description for video files, and synchronized caption and/or audio description for multimedia files?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. The audio file embedded on this worksheet does not include an accurate and complete text transcript.</p>
    <p>VO: This is a sample audio file. This example is inaccessible.</p>
    <p>VO: Let's activate this multimedia file to determine whether synchronized captions and audio descriptions have been included.</p>
    <p>VO: This is a sample multimedia file. Dear Greys in a field, ducks swim across a pond, birds fly over a river.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is accessible. Thank you for watching Module 8.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, Cheap Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Spreadsheet Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Using Built-in Features to Organize Content and Ensure Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][4]
  * [Module 5: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables][5]
  * [Module 6: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][6]
  * [Module 7: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][7]
  * **Module 8: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate**
  * [Module 9: Excluding Flashing Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Saving in the .xlsx Format with a Descriptive Filename][10]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx10/
