---
layout: video
sidenav: true
type: spreadsheet training
title: 'Module 5: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables'
permalink: training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx05/
redirect_from:
- create/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx05/
description: Discover how to use the built-in table features so assistive technology can read the information in data tables in a meaningful manner.
disclaimer: 
audience:
- federal employee (fedemp)
- Content Creators (creator)
- Website Managers/Content Managers (wcm)
- Public (public)
topic: Training (train)
subtopic: Spreadsheets
resource-type: Training
format: Video & Synchronized Media (video)
created: 2020-01-20
updated: 2026-03-03
exclude-changelog: true
---

Discover how to use the built-in table features so assistive technology can read the information in data tables in a meaningful manner.

<video controls="controls" poster="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/thumbnails/training-video-xlsx-poster.jpg" data-vscid="3qesx4ovd" style="width:100%"><source src="https://assets.section508.gov/assets/videos/training-video-xlsx-05-oc.mp4" type="video/mp4" /></video>

<div class="usa-accordion usa-accordion--bordered">
  <h4 class="usa-accordion__heading">
    <button id="transcript" type="button" class="usa-accordion__button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="a1">Transcript</button>
  </h4>
  <div id="a1" class="usa-accordion__content">
    <p>[bright musical tones with gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>Voice Over (VO): Accessible Electronic Document Community of Practice, AED-COP.</p>
    <p>[gentle swoosh]</p>
    <p>VO: You are watching how to make an accessible document in Microsoft Excel.</p>
    <p>VO: This is Module 5, using built-in features to create data tables.</p>
    <p>VO: This video is one in a series showing how to make an Excel worksheet, Section 508 Conformant.</p>
    <p>VO: Data tables are a useful way to organize and present information in a presentation.</p>
    <p>VO: To ensure data tables are created with accessibility in mind, the tables must be created using built-in table features, so that assistive technology can read the tables information in a meaningful manner.</p>
    <p>VO: Pictures of tables and tables with merged or split cells are not accessible because the information in the table cannot be read or read in a way that accurately conveys the information in the table.</p>
    <p>VO: Additionally, data tables must not be contained within another table. Assistive technology users need to be able to identify column headers and data tables to understand the association between table cells and their respective headers.</p>
    <p>VO: To create an accessible data table, select Insert, then Table.</p>
    <p>VO: In the Create Table pane, choose the range of cells for your data table.</p>
    <p>VO: Then, check the My Table has headers checkbox. To name your table, choose any table by selecting Table Tools, Design, then Table Name.</p>
    <p>VO: You can also apply a table name by right-clicking on a data cell and select Define Name.</p>
    <p>VO: Now, choose the first cell in the header column and/or row and update the column and/or row headings with descriptive names.</p>
    <p>VO: Begin by selecting a table and then navigate to the Home tab. Select Editing, Find and Select, and then Go To.</p>
    <p>VO: Select any table listed in the Go To Options window. Note, images of tables will never be listed in the Go To Options window.</p>
    <p>VO: Does the table's name display under the group when you select Table Tools, Design, and then Properties?</p>
    <p>VO: If not, the document fails this test. Now, place your cursor on the first row and/or column of a table cell and see if the worksheet has identified the header row and/or column.</p>
    <p>VO: Or header row and/or first column in the Table Styles Options group checked. If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: Finally, select a table in your worksheet. If the ribbon shows the Picture Tools tab instead of the Table Tools tab, then the table is an image.</p>
    <p>VO: Is the worksheet free of pictures of tables? If not, the document fails this test.</p>
    <p>VO: The table in this example does not appear in the Go To Options window because this table is an image of a table.</p>
    <p>VO: Pictures of tables are not accessible. In this example, the table does not have a table name displayed in the Table Design tab.</p>
    <p>VO: And when we place the cursor on the first row, we can see that header row and first column are not checked.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is not accessible. We are able to navigate to this table in the Go To Options window.</p>
    <p>VO: We can also find the table name displayed in the Table Tools tab. And when we select the first row, we can see that header row and first column are checked.</p>
    <p>VO: This example is accessible. Thank you for watching Module 5.</p>
    <p>VO: You are encouraged to watch the other modules in this video series and revisit modules to gain a mastery of the information provided.</p>
    <p>VO: To learn more about Section 508, visit www.section508.gov. This video is a product of the accessible electronic document community of practice, Chief Information Officers Council, and the Federal Aviation Administration.</p>
  </div>
</div>

## Related Spreadsheet Video Series Modules

  * [Module 0: Introduction & Background][0]
  * [Module 1: Using Built-in Features to Organize Content and Ensure Logical Reading Order][1]
  * [Module 2: Ensuring the Contrast Ratio Between Text and Background is Sufficient][2]
  * [Module 3: Ensuring Color and Other Visual Characteristics are Also Described in Text][3]
  * [Module 4: Making Vital Background Information Accessible][4]
  * **Module 5: Using Built-In Features to Create Data Tables**
  * [Module 6: Adding Alternative Text to Images and Other Objects][6]
  * [Module 7: Creating Links with Unique and Descriptive Names][7]
  * [Module 8: Ensuring Descriptions of Embedded Audio, Video and Multimedia Files are Accurate][8]
  * [Module 9: Excluding Flashing Objects][9]
  * [Module 10: Saving in the .xlsx Format with a Descriptive Filename][10]


 [0]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx00/
 [1]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx01/
 [2]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx02/
 [3]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx03/
 [4]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx04/
 [5]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx05/
 [6]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx06/
 [7]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx07/
 [8]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx08/
 [9]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx09/
 [10]: {{site.baseurl}}/training/spreadsheets/aed-cop-xlsx10/
